one Application --> one or More projects
Each Projects (BasicEg)-->one or More .cs files

c#--Case Sensitive

setting startup object--rightclick on project name-->
Properties-->change start up object

Difference between readkey, readline and read
ReadKey (returns a character): reads only one single character from the standard input stream. Usually used when you're giving options to the user in the console to select from, such as select A, B or C. Another prominent example, Press Y or n to continue.
ReadLine (returns a string): reads only single line from the standard input stream. As an example, it can be used to ask the user enter their name or age.
Read (returns an int): reads only one single character from the standard input stream. Similar to ReadKey except that it returns an integer.

class classname
{

 datatype variblename(datamember)  N
returntype functionname()(member function)  N

{

}



}

Dont use c# or csharp keywords for classname,methodname or variable name

Type Conversion
1.Implicit coversion

int -->float-->long

2.Explicit conversion

long-->float-->int

Boxing:
convert value type into reference --boxing
unboxing
converting reference type to value type

Params
 //params is keyword which is used to specify a parameter that takes variable no of arguments
            //only one params keyword in allowed and no additional parameter is permitted after the params keyword in a function declaration

Objects :Entity 

Access Modifier Or Access Specifier

private,internal,protected,protected internal,public

In c#: all the variable and Methods are by default private

In C# : All class are by default internal

What is a constructor in C#?
 
A special method of the class that is automatically invoked when an instance of the class is created is called a constructor. The main use of constructors is to initialize the private fields of the class while creating an instance for the class. When you have not created a constructor in the class, the compiler will automatically create a default constructor of the class. The default constructor initializes all numeric fields in the class to zero and all string and object fields to null.


//Overloading
Method overloading
Constructor overloading

Same information behavious diffent based on situation

you --home --work(buying vegetables)
	     work(official work)	

--differers with no of parameters in argument list. no the return type
-------------
this  --Keyword : help to refer to current class instance (object)

------------------------
cant declare multiple class with same name inside same namespace or project















